# spring-boot-rest-api-crud
Spring Boot Rest APIs with CRUD for MySQL. Each branch implements different features:

- ***basic_crud***: contains the DAO interface EmployeeDAO and its implementation EmployeeDAOJpaImpl. The JPA methods for CRUD operations have been manually developed.
- ***crud_spring_data_jpa***: makes use of Spring data JPA (EmployeeRepository) to implement the DAO. So the JPA methods for CRUD operations are auto generated by Spring Data JPA.
- ***in_memory_spring_security***: in the class DemoSecurityConfig has been provided basic in memor authentication and authorization with Spring Security.
- ***spring_security_jdbc_auth_default_tables***: provides Spring Security authentication via JDBC with default table (default Spring tbale names and columns-  cannot be changed) both with plaintext and bcrypt passwords (the code is the same the only thing that changes is the prefix {noop} or {bcrypt} before the passwords stored inside the database)
- ***spring_security_jdbc_auth_custom_tables***: provides Spring Security authentication via JDBC with custom tables
- ***spring_security_custom_tables_with_JPA_hibernate***: provides Spring security authentication via JDBC using JPA and Hibernate
- ***spring_security_user_registration*** added a REST API to allow the registration of a new user following this example:  https://github.com/Baeldung/spring-security-registration. I need to add more features to handle the users.

In each branch the folder **sql-scripts** contains the SQL scripts to be run in MySQL.

NOTE: to make use of Spring dev tools on Intellij in Settings -> Build, Execution, Deployment check Build Project Automatically and in Advanced Settings check Allow auto-make to start even if developed application is currently running.

All APIs have been implemented starting from the code of this course: https://github.com/darbyluv2code/spring-boot-3-spring-6-hibernate-for-beginners. I may have added/changed something to address my goals.
